Trigger Gemini Assistant from Port (#2757)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/guides/all/trigger-gemini-assistant-from-port.md

---
displayed_sidebar: null
description: Learn how to trigger Google Gemini Assistant from Port to enable AI-powered coding assistance in your development workflow while tracking its execution.
---

import GithubActionModificationHint from '/docs/guides/templates/github/_github_action_modification_required_hint.mdx'

# Trigger Google Gemini Assistant from Port

> This guide demonstrates how to trigger Google Gemini Assistant from Port, enabling AI-powered coding assistance in your development workflow. By leveraging Gemini Assistant, you can significantly reduce manual coding tasks and enhance productivity, allowing developers to focus on more complex problem-solving. 
> You will learn how to create self-service actions that can trigger Gemini Assistant and configure the necessary GitHub workflows to handle the execution process with comprehensive execution tracking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide demonstrates how to trigger Google Gemini Assistant from Port, enabling AI-powered coding assistance in your development workflow. By leveraging Gemini Assistant, you can significantly reduce manual coding tasks and enhance productivity, allowing developers to focus on more complex problem-solving.  
The guide shows how to create self-service actions that can trigger Gemini Assistant and configure the necessary GitHub workflows to handle the execution process with comprehensive execution tracking.
```
